Atlantis is my second favorite spin off of
the Stargate series,
but that's not what this episode is about.
Wait. What was your first?
In all seriousness though, David couldn't even stop
asking questions because it was so interesting. Terraform
automation is a very important aspect of production
engineering,
so I was genuinely excited. You weren't the
only one. Today, we got to talk with
one of the maintainers of Project Atlantis,
a Terraform pull request automation system. So let's
go deep, deep undersea and explore the wonderful
world of Atlantis.
Not Stargate.
Alright. While David is having some tea, we
are welcoming a new guest today
to talk a little bit about the Atlantis
project.
Pepe, do you want to introduce yourself and
tell us a little bit about Sure.
I'm, my name is Pepe.
Well, it's my nickname. My real name is
Jose, but everybody calls me Pepe in the
tech industry. So let's let's let's give it
a Pepe.
I have been with the Atlantis project for
about
four years almost, I think. I am not
the original developer of the Atlantis project. I
inherited from,
Luke and Mishra, which both work in HashiCorp
right now. And I became involved with the
project
due to the fact that I needed a
feature really badly. And I was like, I
need to do this. And I used to
work in Sonatype,
which is a has a lot of open
source projects. And basically they support me to
introduce the feature and somehow I end up
with owning the project with
Dylan and Chiryu that are the other core
maintainers of the project. Yeah. I know you
said HashiCorp.
Yes. Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I was gonna
say, I know you said HashiCorp, but all
I heard was IBM.
Brutal, brutal. There was a big discussion at
some point. We were kind of nervous at
some point about it because the Atlantis was
created in Vancouver,
literally
half a block away where I used to
work. So maybe me and
Luke and Mishra eat it in the same
restaurant in the corner
of the Raywall Street because it was created
by Hootsuite.
So when they were in Hootsuite,
they created Atlantis.
And then they open sourced it. Hootsuite was
happy to do that. And then it became
an open source project.
And then
Mishra Luke moved to HashiCorp. And when I
joined the Atlantis project was a bit it
didn't have much activity
because where I used to work in Sonatype,
we have a lot of open source libraries.
I ask what if we, because we're using
Atlantis, what if we actually
fork Atlantis under Sonotype and we maintain it
and they were okay.
There's a bunch of
Golang developers there.
And I was not a Golang developer at
all. And I'm not a Golang developer. I
can't call myself a Golang developer. And so
I learned Golang just to build this feature
and that's when basically that spark kind of
like looked to add, try to find out
more contributors.
And so this was basically the first time
that Atlantis ever had external contributors except for
Mishra and Luke. And that's how we became
part of the project. And well, a few
years after that, after the change of license
of Terraform,
we got an exception
from HashiCorp
for because we have the binary of Terraform
within the Atlantis image.
So we were not sure if that was
in breach
the new license.
And then at the same time, that's when
we start asking the question, should we move
it to the CNCF?
Should we apply to be a CNCF project?
And that's when basically
Luke dropped from the project and give us
ownership of the whole project to the three
of us. Awesome.
For anyone listening, let's make two assumptions right
now. One, they know what TerraForm is. And
two, they don't know what Atlantis is. Can
you give us the kind of the rundown
of what is Atlantis and how do people
integrate it? Yeah. So Atlantis is basically,
I would say maybe one of the first,
if not the first, GitOps workflow integration
with Terraform. So
the idea is that
developers don't have to go and use, you
know, their local environments or a local or
another tool to run their Terraform workflows to
deploy their infrastructure.
And was moving
that responsibility or that tooling to the left,
closer to the developers. So Atlas integrates with
the VCS,
which could be GitHub, GitLab, Azure DevOps,
GitT,
and Bitbucket.
And basically you create a webhook configuration in
your repo and then the user, the developer
can just basically interact with Atlantis commands
and so comments within the PR and Atlantis
will respond with the Terraform plan against the
workflow that is defined. Atlantis can do it
automatically like if you have a few Terraform
files in the repo, it has auto discovery,
auto planning
and it discovers those files and then it
will basically tell you, hey, here's your plan.
And it will create a formatted comment within
your PR so you can see it and
then people that review the PR can see
it too. And then it's like, this is
what supposed to
what TerraForm wants to plan.
And then you can have a better idea
of what the
outcome of that PR is going to be.
So then you get kind of like a
sense of what it's going to look like
in the current infrastructure
after the PR is merged when the deployment
happens. So all the interaction is based on
command. So you do Atlantis plan and then
you get the comment.
If you don't have, if you have
auto plan enabled, it will do it by
itself.
And then if after the reviews, after rules
that you have in your repo, Atlantis will
look at those rules in the VCS and
then it will say, okay, well now this
is approved, it's ready for merge.
And then you run Atlantis apply and then
it runs Terraform apply for you. And Atlantis
is not a wrapper. Atlantis just runs your
binary of Terraform. So people use it to
run CDKTF.
Some people use it to run TeraGrant. Some
people use it to run Atmos from Cloud
Policy. So you can actually run anything that
outputs a Terraform plan at some point. So
you can glue a lot of scripts in
between, run policies and a bunch of other
things. That's basically what Atlanta said. You can
extend it quite a lot,
but in an essence it's basically GitOps
interaction with your terfont workflows.
I I never knew that angle. I use
CDKTF
quite a lot these days, and I like
I've not used it in production, but I
like the Atlas project and it's use of
HTL for database schemas and migrations. Mhmm. And
I don't even think for a second that
you could run Atlantis as your kind of
CICD glue at that point to get kind
of visibility into what is going to change.
Yeah. And I just want to focus on
kind of that one statement. It's like, for
anyone listening to that description, was great, right?
The take home is Atlantis seems to be
that window into what will change if I
merge this pull request. Is that that correct?
Exactly
correct. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of like
the snapshot of like, what is this PR
going to change of my infrastructure?
Obviously, is we can get into discussions about,
you know, apply before merge and apply after
merge, which Atlantis is applied before merge,
which has these drawbacks. But
basically, at the point that the command was
done, the infrastructure looked like that and your
code was trying to change that
snapshot of time of the infrastructure in that
moment. Yeah. I guess this goes down to
that wonderful naive assumption that many people make.
If they merge a pull request, the code
that's going to end up in the main
branch is the code that was in the
PR, and that's not always the case. That's
correct. Because in the between, this kind of
like tab up versus spaces conversation.
In any tool
that relates to Terraform
due to the state and how the state
works, because the state is not a synchronous
entity
where by itself will actually check the status
of the infrastructure is only by triggers.
The any tool that uses a GitOps flow
will have a delay between what reality is,
which is your infrastructure, live infrastructure with the
VR.
So if someone goes in and has the
ability to change manually something
that you want to change in your plan,
that plan is already out of date. Damn
those click offers. But anyway, you
don't work for IBM, right? No, I don't.
I don't. I work for a consulting Cool.
So I can say, does Atlantis work with
OpenToFu?
Yes, it does. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So
we we added OpenToFu
support. Actually, this is a bit of a
misconception about Atlantis or maybe it's not well
documented, maybe it's our fault too. So you
can run anything in Atlantis
that produces Terraform
plan output, a plan file.
As long as it runs Terraform, you generate
a Terraform plan file, you can do anything
you want. You can create a Jira ticket
in between
and then run Terraform. You can do all
the stuff because you can add your custom
workflow with your custom script. A lot of
people even use connections
with AD to figure it out if the
users are part of a group in AD
before
the plan gets run and a bunch of
things. You can customize this really heavily. So
you can run anything. So before we actually,
we had official OpenTofu support,
people already were using OpenTofu because you can
customize the workflow to just run the Tofu
binary instead of the terfone binary.
So that
there's a blog post in our site about
that. And then we release
Open Tofu official support. And what I mean
by official support is that now that Atlantis
is able to download
automatically
the version of Open Tofu that you describe
in the workflow
required versions.
So that's the difference between kind of like
official and non official support is that we
were out to download because we had that
capability for Terraform and we want to offer
the same in OpenTof. Do you find that
you have like some usage stats at this
point where you can say like, okay, you
know, 50% of people are using OpenTofu versus
I'm
actually kind of curious if you have Actually,
I do. They're
not up
to date
because we did a survey
a while back.
We I remember sending these
screenshot
to the OpenTofu
Slack channel
because at that point
OpenTofu was,
I
can't recall the version of Open Tofu,
but there was about 20 or 30% of
the people were using our Open Tofu at
that point already.
So that's,
that's way higher than I was very surprised
because at that point, OpenTofu was like super,
super early stages and people were already using
it. I was like, wow, that's that's crazy
that a lot of people are using it.
So, yeah. Yeah. Alright. I'm going to ask
a flippant question. Please don't hate me too
much. Right? But I
Atlantis
is a wrapper, if you will, of TerraForm
or Open Tofu, etcetera. Uh-huh. Basically, it just
gets planned out and then post to a
comment. That's right. But you've been maintaining this
project for four years. I'm assuming it's got
a forward trajectory. Things are changing. Like, is
it not done? Like what comes next? Like
what are you
Yeah. That's a hard question to answer right
now. We literally have a meeting last week
or two weeks ago to talk about the
future. This is a problem. We are all
working on we have our day jobs as
many, many or pretty much 99%
of every contributor on an open source project,
they do not work a hundred percent of
the time at the project. So, and a
lot of us have changed kind of like
responsibilities
within our jobs. So, or we are more
busy than before or less busy, but we
need to focus on learning something new or
whatever. So we are all kind of like
in transition period where, we are trying to
figure out what are we going to do.
There's new people that join us
and they are core contributors,
not yet maintainers. So we are hoping that
they will have the time to join us
as a maintainer.
There's a lot of commitment.
It's a lot of code. We support all
those VCSs that I mentioned.
It's hard to keep up with the API
changes of the VCS. And then on top
of that, try to move towards the future.
The future of LightLand is right now.
The short term feature is that we are
going to release version one point zero as
official.
Due
to the fact that it has been used
in production for many, many years already, but
we didn't ever move to basically
follow Semper correctly.
We are already in production, therefore we should
have in version one point zero. But for
that we need to do some work because,
you know, the docs, for example, don't reflect
versioning of the features. So we want to
reflect that. We already deprecated a bunch of
old,
configs and parameters that we don't support anymore.
So we did that work. So there's a
few other things that we need to do
to get to like release one point zero
and then
two point zero will be basically what we
would like to see in the future. But
for that we need a lot of more
maintainers to help us out. So ideally what
will happen with Atlantis is that it's going
to be a queuing system for PRs
that will be synchronous to the cluster.
So ideally what will happen is that we
will use something like, I don't know, Teporo
or something like that, that will be able
to manage queues
of
PRs, incoming PRs for multiple VCSs
at the same time. And then they can
basically
have worker nodes that will run the plan
and there will be some sort of metadata
share storage where if the node goes down,
we still can find information and so on
and have statuses
globally across the whole cluster,
which is not true.
Right now you can run multiple Atlantis instances
in HII
mode,
but it's a bit tricky and a bit
slow because you need shared storage and things
like that. So hopefully we can get to
that point.
Interestingly enough, the Atlantis project was a
huge amount of contribution
from Lyft.
There were two developers from Lyft. Lyft used
Atlantis quite heavily
internally.
And a lot of the features, some of
the features that we have right now, for
example live logs and things like that, are
actually due to their contributions.
And at some point they wanted to actually
create something called an Autelus under our repo
and to be able to use Temporal as
a queuing system for Atlantis. So that was
what they were building inside. So we were
basically going to move towards that. But then
there were some disagreements between HashiCorp and then
that could not happen. Hopefully, you know, in
the future that's where we will get to.
Where we can have like a more distributed
system for Atlantis instead of having like Atlantis
actually scales really well vertically.
We have people that have, 500 PRs a
day going through an Atlantis server and
only one Atlantis server. So for multiple environments.
So it really, really is really
performance.
But obviously all of that depends on how
you
structure your data from projects and so on.
Yeah. I guess
I wanna make sure I captured the kind
of problem statement there correctly, right? Like GitHub
now has merge queues. So we have some
sort of guarantee that well, we do have
guarantees that pull requests be merged in a
certain order. So it's not the TerraForm apply,
I think, that is causing problems here, right?
Correct me if I'm wrong. The challenge that
you have and why horizontal scale and temporal
may be really useful is that if you've
got multiple PRs being opened at the same
time and they're all running a TerraForm plan,
those will be very different depending on when
they're actioned sequentially. Or even if they happen
at the same time, the plans would actually
be incorrect.
Yeah. And that's the problem that if you
push this,
well, I guess if you push it through
temporal or some sort of queuing system,
still doesn't give you a guaranteed output, but
it's going be a more consistent. I don't
know. That's a tough problem. Yeah, the problem
is mostly
which Atlantis server picks the BR.
And if that Atlantis server dies and then
someone
runs another command,
will we have enough information to continue the
work that was lost?
Or
the other problem is that parallelism
in terraform plants is hard within one specific
instance. Like if you run multiple plans of
the same repo in your computer, it's actually
tricky.
You could potentially lock the project completely and
then the next person will not, if you
have login enabled, will not be able to
use it.
You can use WorkSpaces and do things like
that. So so there is a bunch of
problems that the queue and and worker nodes
could solve
that
not only pertains to the Terraform plan in
itself, but but to who
manages that request at that particular moment. And
if we can run multiple PRs from the
same repo, for example,
in multiple different servers, you know, and then
synchronize that metadata back. Okay. So how deep
is the GET and GitHub integration then? And
the use case is the one that I
kind of just talked about. If we've got
two pill requests,
they run a plan and then one gets
merged. We're now at the point where pill
request B
is out of sync with the main branch.
Yeah. I could go to the pull request
and say rebase,
which would trigger the rebuild because the actual
pull request was updated. But does Atlantis have
enough understanding to block
or at least warn the user before merging
that pull request? Well, that would be very
tricky with multiple servers.
So that will be a challenge if we
move to that worker type of node, no,
that would be very tricky. We have different
modes of repo settings for like divergent and
so on. I will say that they are
not as stable as you would think. Or
I wouldn't say not as stable, is that
the definition of divergent
for certain people is different of what we
offer in the code. And that's where it
gets a bit tricky.
And so,
yeah. So the problem about merging or the
workflow, how you work with your repo
will directly affect how, you know, the multiple
worker nodes will interact too. So those all
those kind of like design decisions are going
to be really hard to get there. But
I mean, it is possible. So it's a
matter of like having enough people to like,
you know, sit down, write it down and
test it and figure it out. But we
are not the only ones that, you know,
want to see something like that. A lot
of people, there is a huge issue in
Atlantis.
I have been there for many, many years
of people talking about how can we get
Atlantis to be a real
instead of, you know, having to do this
kind of like shared storage and we have
ready support for locking and some metadata.
So it kinda works, but it doesn't actually
do it in a huge scale for like
people that has, you know, 500,
a thousand PRs a day from multiple teams
and things like that. So that will be
the goal. Yeah. But it's going to be
tricky. That's for sure. And the multiple VCS,
thing is it's a huge deal for us.
You will not believe how complicated
it gets from one VCS client library we
have to the other one. So from GitLab
to GitHub.
What is a status
of a simple status. What is
done status? How is defined within the VCS?
It's always a problem.
And what consists of mergeable PR
within GitLab,
Azure DevOps and GitHub? They're totally different.
So that part is actually really hard. We
would love to see more contribution
from the VCSMs themselves into Atlantis, but that's
a hard one. We do have contributions from
GitLab actually, because GitLab uses Atlantis internally.
So every now and then we actually do
have PRs from GitLab
going into change certain definitions because the
API change and so on. So,
yeah. And another part of the two point
zero and the feature is like create
a
pluggable PCS interface
so that people that has other type of
PCSs or they want to, you know, for
example, play with version two of the GitHub
API or GitHub API can do it easily
without breaking the core. So,
that's another thing that we are thinking about.
So, many, many things in the list of,
like, what we would like to see for
two point zero.
So,
I'm gonna be the one to ask it
because I know David is thinking it. Is
Rust anywhere in that conversation?
Mostly I'm trolling David, but you know. Yeah.
I asked that question not long ago to
the other core contributors and we were talking
about it. I guess the answer is kind
of simple in a way if you think
about it because we are a CSCF project
now
and we are moving to the incubation project
and then hopefully at some point we are
going to be released as a CNCF
project.
The ecosystem
in the CNCF is Golang and that's a
simple answer for
Yeah, so if Rust would have had a
major, I guess, appearance within the
other
CNCF projects,
it will be an easier sell for in
that case.
So,
and there is a lot of things that
we are within the ecosystem of the CNCF
that support,
I guess, you know, Golang more than others.
So if I was going to maybe ask
for help for something within
Atlantis,
which is really in Golang, I might have
more luck finding someone within the CNCF to
help us out than
compared with Rust.
It's a choice.
It's a total choice. I mean, don't have
to write it in Golang if you want
to do it in C. Mean, there's a
lot of stuff that are written in C
and other languages, but Golang is the main
language within the Censor projects.
I have thoughts on that, but I'll
say that for later. I mean, you also
are consuming Terraform.
I'm assuming as a Go module, right?
Know those No, actually download the binary. No,
we download the Oh, okay. So that's when
Terraform got changed in license, that's why we
didn't have an issue
HashiCorp or one of the reasons, but yeah,
so we just download the binary. That's what
we do. And then we just run against
it. That's all we do. All right. Well,
I'm going to come back to some more
hard questions then because
Atlantis is obviously a very cool project. It's
in the CNCF. It has, you know, of
contributors,
power of momentum to one point zero and
the future two point zero. Right? But we're
talking about a project that has the ability
to execute
TerraForm,
which is obviously downloaded as a binary. So
there's one security
concern there. I'm sure there's checks and balances
in place, but, know, we'll get there. That
also has the ability to run against all
of my cloud native infrastructure, whether that be
on AWS, GCP. Yep. Any integrations, Datadogs, New
Relics, anything I can use Terraform these days,
which is pretty much everything.
So you've got access to all of my
credentials,
security concern.
And we've put this into a repository, which
may or may not be a open source
publicly available repository with CICD runs with log
outputs and the ability for people to execute
commands or comments, which I'm assuming that's how
Atlantis is orchestrated.
Security concern. So maybe you can guide me
through
what checks and balances are in place to
make sure that Atlantis as a secure project
for me to run-in my production infrastructure,
whether it's open source or not. Yeah, I
think that the official answer is
you need to follow the
cloud
provider guidelines or security to when
running any telephone code. Doesn't matter if you
run an Atlantis.
So those guidelines need to be already in
your project to be secure because we run
whatever you want within your terraform project. So
if you're running local exec and then
doing Bitcoin mining, we can't stop it.
That will be in your code within
your terraform project.
So
after
Atlantis runs
and gets the credentials somehow for the to
pass it to the provider, kind of like
that's kind of like the first
big security
problem that you want to solve, then
we run any code that is there. So
it is crucially important that whatever gets to
the repo, it is obviously has some sort
of check and balances within the company or
the project or whatever is public or not.
And that the code is, you know, set
to be safe.
And for that you can use any tools
for IEC,
you know, security checks, you know, static code
analysis tools like Snyk, Fossa or whatever supports
Terraform.
And after that then it becomes kind of
like an interaction between how do you deploy
Atlantis
into the cloud provider and how you are
interacting with your cloud provider. And that is
where kind of like the
well architected framework type of doc will come
into
consideration and then realize, okay, how is it
safe what is the safest way to pass
to a CICD pipeline
credentials
to then run Terraform? And Atlantis will fit
in between there. So usually what people will
do,
will deploy
Atlantis
in GCP
or Azure or
AWS and they will use role assumption. And
then the role assumption may some people use
a centralized account, management account where they have
an Atlantis server
or deployment that basically has good mode to
assume roles everywhere.
Then their responsibility of having
the
roles set up properly so that you don't
allow all the services, for example, or all
the Lambdas and you actually create your role
policies
to constrain the least access possible
is the responsibility of the person that, you
know, is maintaining the REST account. So that's
why I say it's not just Atlantis,
it's actually far more important than how the
project is being built.
We think with like the security constraints
and recommendation of the cloud provider and how
the cloud provider recommends you to then
assume
those different role levels to then interact
with, so that you can interact with the
cloud provider.
Atlantis does have some checks in the sense
of like, for example,
it doesn't allow you to
bypass
or
to traverse
your directory where the BR is.
So because at some point there was
the possibility to be able to graph files
outside of your repo. So we have now
a setting that defaults to only allow the
PR repository to be looked at.
And if you want to inject files, there
is other methods
to do so. But they would only be
pertained to that checkout. Because Atlantis,
it does is when it gets an event,
a webhookit event, the first thing it does
is checks the code of that repo, that
PR, that
commit hash. And so it downloads the repo,
creates a repository structure within Atlantis and that's
where all your code lists and all the
commands live and where the plan file is
going to be. Everything is there.
So now you cannot obviously traverse in between
directories. In very old versions you could potentially
do that. And then one thing that I
will say that Atlantix could do better and
that we don't really have a good way
to do so. A lot of people solve
these problems with
policy as code. So we have policy checks,
So you can run
conf test policies
against your code. So then you can check
against provider versions and what kind of providers
are allowed
because we have a mechanism called free workflow
hooks where you can run any type of
tooling or script
before Atlantis actually runs. So then you can
do all those checks yourself.
But it will be nice to see, for
example, that we add some sort of way
to list the providers that are allowed to
run within
Atlantis and then Atlantis will actually not run
that project if it has those,
kind of like an extension of the policy
checks, but in an easy configurable
setting. We don't currently have that. And that
has been kind of like one of the
things that's like, hey, it would be nice
if we could potentially
do that because one of the biggest issues
in,
I guess, that I see as a consultant
and I have seen it from comments in
the Slack is that
they have the Atlantis server, they have this,
all this set up with all these roles
and permissions.
But now anyone that creates a PR can
add a provider or can add a new
resource
that will execute something and they want to
not allow anyone to do so, but they
don't have those capabilities maybe at the VCS
level because they don't have admin rights to
that or whatever, but they want to do
it in the Atlantic side, but they can't.
So that's when they get crafty and then
create a pre workflow script and so on.
So I think that there is more work
to do there.
But like I said before, since Atlantis is
just runs your binary of terform,
I guess the best way for you to
accommodate for
any security issues is to actually download, maybe
create your own image,
put all the tooling that you want to
wrap around your Teflon projects with. And then
maybe if you want, you create a custom
workflow that will run those tools before
your project actually runs through Atlantis.
And then you can kind of like avoid
some of those kind of like middleman
injection
attacks, let's say, if we want to call
them that way, to avoid those kind of
like raw user issues, which are more
common than not actually in all the GitOps
tooling.
So, yeah. Interesting. That's a great answer. You
covered a lot more there than I was
expecting you No,
no, that's great. Right? Because what we want
is people to be, we want them to
be excited by the project. We want them
to get value from it. And from that,
you need to make sure that their security
posture is in the right place and that
they're comfortable with this kind of workload running.
Right? Because the more automation we bring,
the more that attack surface
expands. Absolutely. Yeah. But let's
let's assume people listening. This sounds great. I
I'm happy with my security posture.
I wanna start running this. A couple of
times now you've mentioned the concept of an
Atlantis server. And I wanna just understand, is
that a prerequisite
for people to get started or can they
just use a GitHub action to run some
sort of Atlantis binary? Like, what is that
getting started process? We actually do have in
our survey, we do have a lot of
people that wants to see an Atlantis GitHub
actions, but we don't have that yet. So
Atlantis is a binary
that you need to run listening into a
port, to listen to, webhook requests.
So, no
matter where you run it, some people have
run it in even app run and things
like that,
you it has to be listening as a
D1 somewhere.
So, most probably most people use container to
do that in any type of flavored cloud,
flavored service that can run a container, which
are many.
And we do offer a help chart for
people that are running Kubernetes so that they
can install the help chart. So, at the
end of the day, you have to have
that this binary
running and listening import forty one forty one,
which is the default.
And then that will become your Atlantis instance
basically.
And you will have to configure that your
Atlantis instance
to be able to fulfill
kind of like the forecast of, you know,
PRs and plans that
you might have, depending on the size of
your project.
And size
is a word that is used very widely
within
GitOps,
but there is a size of Terraform project
that is very important to be able to
size your instance
or your server.
So can you run Atlantis using Atlantis?
Is that what I'm hearing, basically? No. Well,
I'm controlling a little bit. No. No. No.
Actually, that's a good question. You so
funny enough, a lot of people do. So,
a lot of people have, for example, help
chart integration
in
a pipeline in Terraform that then updates itself.
Great.
Okay. So, yes. I had to ask because
I thought that that would be really entertaining
if it's true. Yeah, yeah, Actually in many
projects that I set up, Atlantis was
basically resource zero of the infrastructure
and it will run within this account that
I was mentioning before that will assume roles
in all the different accounts. And Atlantis will
actually create the first resources in every single
account. So in a way Atlantis was the
bootstrapping
of all the other accounts. But at the
same time I needed to update Atlantis after
the accounts were created to like update maps
and things like that. And basically you could
potentially run-in the
repo
Atlantis plan and you will actually update itself
with the new values.
As long as these are not destructive things
that you're doing within the Terraform code, then
it should be fine. Otherwise you will destroy
itself.
That could happen. It's potentially possible.
I think I have one more question.
So
again,
under the assumption,
the interest of the audience has peaked. This
sounds really cool.
Let's assume there's tens of people that go,
I wanna go do this tomorrow.
Is there ever a use case or ever
an instance where you would tell any of
those people, no, Atlantis is not the right
project for you. They should all Terraform be
under management of Atlantis,
or is there way until you have these
certain constraints and then it becomes important? Yeah,
that's a very good question.
You weren't really planning on having this tough
question on the podcast for you. You're just
too confident. Was like, he's getting the hard
questions today. That's a very good question. I
think that is not an Atlantis responsibility.
I think that is a business decision,
security constrained decision within
the person's project, company project and so on.
You take that decision before you use Atlantis.
And then you decide if you want
or any type of key of automation tooling
connected to that project.
I mean, for example, we could potentially say
that
a project that is creating
new, for example, let's let's talk about it
because
I'm more familiar with it. But imagine that
I'm creating the AWS accounts and I'm setting
up SCPs,
service control policies within the account
and so on.
You might want to say,
you know, at some point or maybe the
security team will say, you know what, we
want to manage that.
But we don't want that as a GitOps
approach because we run those so infrequently that
we will prefer to actually do it in
a pipeline that is very simplistic,
but we don't want Atlantis in between. We
want to provide to Atlantis the required access
and that's about it, which is more like
in a brownfield scenario.
And that happens quite often where, where the
security posture of the company doesn't allow,
you know, you to run semi automated tools
or a high security
or high access level telephone project.
So that depends mostly on that. That you
cannot run anything at that. You can run
absolutely every single piece of code in Atlantis.
And I have done the same kind of
like workflow of creating SCPs and creating accounts
and so on within Atlantis. But that Atlantis
basically had got access.
If you're okay with that, then that's fine,
which is true to every other project out
there, Terraform Cloud, Terra made anything that can
automate Terraform workflows.
Okay. I've got one more now just because
we're talking about gut access mode. Right? Let's
say
I
mean, if they pop in my head, I'm
gonna ask them. That's that's my to my
own detriment. But if
I run Atlantis, let's use AWS because that's
the one you just mentioned. Right? And I
I assign a role to that instance. I'm
assuming I can use, you know, you said
assume role a couple of times now. Right?
But workload identity, I can say this workload
can assume this role because it is this
workload.
So, I mean, again, we're you know, it's
not deflection, but when we talk about the
security of Atlantis, it does just come down
to good cloud practices, the standard things you
would have to do regardless of whether Atlantis
or not. That's so correct. So, it's not
that's why I said, you know, that's what
people, we get a lot of questions of
companies like they send me a Slack messages
directly. Hey,
you know, we want to use it, but
it's not PCI compliant or it's not HIPAA
compliant or is it, but that's not, is
it the advantage responsibility? What does it, the
line needs to be drawn?
And a lot of people actually get confused.
Oh, but Atlantis will have all these access.
No, no, no. You are giving access to
Atlantis.
That just doesn't have any access. It doesn't
want you to set up AWS. We don't
have an AWS client within the library. We
just run Terraform and your Terraform that is
in your binary. So if you create your
image, you have to put Terraform there. Otherwise
it doesn't run. We don't have a client
built in and go.
So,
and that's where people actually get confused because
they think that Atlantis is the one that
has access, but in reality it's the same
as me as the administrator, the DevOps person
or platform engineer
that has access to run terraform is the
same deal. It's not different. The difference, I
guess, is that that automated tooling, which in
this case will be Atlantis,
have more most probably will have more access
than you running locally.
But
would be it. One thing that you could
do in Atlantis, which we recommend most of
the time is to run multiple Atlantis
installations
or containers, the servers in different accounts. That's
for sure we always recommend. If someone asks,
if you really want to make the blast
radius of access,
I guess,
the Atlantis server smaller,
just run an Atlantis server in each account.
So that then we have a way in
Atlantis to configure multiple Atlantis servers using the
same repo. So if you have a mono
repo to do all those
things, you can actually
use Atlantis
configuration to be able to say Atlantis
dev
plan and then it would just run plan
on dev and so on. And then you
can apply and follow approval process and approval
rules within the repo. That will be actually
the best approach and a lot of people
do that
currently.
Obviously
it depends on your VCS, if it supports
multiple webhooks and things like that. Some VCSs
are different.
You know, GitHub and GitLab, for example, are,
you know, that's totally normal and people do
that.
I mean, I'll only challenge one thing there.
It's not the best approach. The best approach
is to have no infrastructure and no code.
Correct. Yeah. And the best security is disconnect
the RJ45
from your rack. That's it. Pull Exactly. That's
it. Just turn it all off.
And I think on that note, we have
had a wonderful episode. So
any last words for our audience before we
let you go today? Well, I guess that
if anyone wants to use Atlantis and or
has any questions about it, we are always
very active in the Slack channel and the
CNCF,
in the Atlantis channel.
So you're welcome to join,
ask questions, try it out. I would try
to, you know, guide you within my time
limits and anything that you're
trying to do,
and we will do the best to help
you out,
you know, with the community.
Yeah. Very nice.
Well, thank you so much for joining us.
We're really happy to have had you. Yeah.
Thank you for the interview. That's amazing. It
was pretty good time. So thank you. Thanks
for joining us. If you want to keep
up with us, consider subscribing to the podcast
on your favorite podcasting app or even go
to CloudNativeCompass.fm.
And if you want us to talk with
someone specific or cover a specific topic,
reach out to us on any social media
platform. Until next time when exploring the cloud
native landscape
on three.
On three. One,
two,
three.
Don't forget your compass. Forget your compass.